Please note: Given USCIS’ relatively high standard of review of EB-2 National Interest Waiver cases, we encourage you to take the time and complete the following questionnaire as thoroughly as possible. The more information and supporting documentation that you provide, the better we may assess the strength of your case. If after the assessment it is determined that the NIW category is a viable option for you, we will build our case based upon the information that you provide.  
Failure to complete all sections may result in substantial delay in the processing of this case. We may, however, require additional information following a review. If question does not apply, please put "none" or "not applicable" (N/A). 
Employee Details
Your name should be entered as it appears in your passport.
Last Name:	     

First Name:	     

Middle Name:	      or 0 Not applicable

E-mail Address:	     

Gender:	0 Female  0 Male    0 Not available

Daytime Telephone Number:	     


Company Contacts
Enter details regarding the manager or direct supervisor 
Manager/Supervisor
Last Name:	     

First Name:	     

Title:	     

Work Address:	     

Telephone Number:	     

E-mail Address:	     


Proposed U.S. Permanent Employment 
The position is to be assumed when you become a permanent resident.
Proposed Job Title:	     

Hire date:	Click here to enter a date.

Annual Base Salary in U.S. dollars:	$              Paid Overtime:  0 Yes  0 No

Work Schedule:  	      AM to       PM

Do you have hire/fire authority?	0 Yes  0 No

Do you oversee a budget?	0 Yes  0 No  

If yes, please provide the approximate budget amount:	$     

Do you supervise any employees? 	0 Yes  0 No

If yes, please provide the number of employees to be supervised by you:	     

If yes, please provide the name and title of employees to be supervised by you: 
     

Is this a prospective position (i.e., you do not currently fill this position)?	0 Yes  0 No

Do you ever work from home? 	0 Yes  0 No

If yes, please provide total number of days per week:	     

Physical Job Location: 
Company Name:	     

Street Address:	     

City:                                                              State/Province/Region:           Zip Code:      

Will you perform services at more than one location, including third-party sites?
If yes, please list all work locations. If you need additional space, include on a separate page.	0 Yes  0 No
     


NIW Eligibility/Evidence     
If your response does not fit in one of the text boxes below, please type "See attached" in the box and attach a document with your response.  If the question is not applicable to you, please write “not applicable” in the text box. Please note that the information requested below is critical to creating the strongest possible application.
Describe the role that you propose to undertake and explain what the potential impact of this position is.
        

Describe how your education, skills, knowledge and/or record of success in related or similar efforts makes you well positioned to advance this position and projects involved.
     

What is your field of expertise/field of your work?       

NIW Job Details 
National Interest Waiver
Work Project(s)
Identify the specific project(s) you are working on. Describe the project(s) in detail and in lay terms. Give details of the project's background, and how it relates to current and/ or ongoing projects. 
     




What are the benefits/importance of this research? 
     

Are there any articles that site the employer, the project or technology that you are developing, or which give details about the pending release of the product? 
     

List the project's major application benefits. How are they important? Use lay terms.
     

Your Work
What is your role in the projects noted above? Describe (in lay terms) specific responsibilities/ goals and objectives.      

How does your work benefit the national interest? Below are several factors. Check the appropriate ones and elaborate. It would be beneficial for you to provide a full and detailed description (at least two paragraphs) for each factor, including how the project is in the national interest, and how your work ties into the project.  Some major factors to consider:
0 Improving the economy (e.g., create jobs, reduce trade deficit)
     

0 Improving wages/working conditions of U.S. workers (e.g., retain manufacturing jobs, better wages through increased sales)
     

0 Improving the environment (e.g., reduce air emissions, lower energy consumption, transportation-related pollution)
     

0 Improving airline transportation safety 
     

0 Improving reliability and efficiency of airline transportation 
     

0 Build more resilient and sustainable transportation
     

0 Advancing U.S. technology abroad (e.g., market penetration, maintain U.S. lead) 
     

0 Help Southwest modernize airline transportation.
     

0 Other    
        

Please site sources of available independent documentation to support the contention that your work is in the national interest. Discuss as many factors as possible. Attach more sheets as necessary.
My work benefits the national interest because it will:  
     

Describe your contributions to the project. Include all publications conference presentations relating to this project. Show how these conditions have been significant and will have a substantial impact in the national interest. 
     

How has your work brought about improvements or benefits to previously and/or subsequent developed products / processes of the employer? Please Explain. 
     

How can we quantify your contributions? We must provide specifics to back up the national interest claim. Provide your best estimate as to how many jobs will be created, what increase in sales/production volume will result, how much market penetrations overseas will occur, etc. We realize this speculation, but please use your best efforts.
     

What is the value of the project? How much revenue do you estimate will be generated as a result of your indirect efforts?
     

Job creation will be a very persuasive factor with USCIS. Give an estimate of how many jobs might be created due to your efforts. Give areas where you believe job creation will occur (e.g., engineering, R&D, marketing, sales, manufacturing, etc.) Since this is speculation, you may qualify your answers. For example: "The normal projection of increased positions for this level of sales is 1 SO jobs, distributed within manufacturing, sales, and distribution."
     

Give examples of your past accomplishments in the job and explain how your work will continue to benefit the U.S. in the future. 
     

Documents To Send
•	Updated C.V./Resume.
•	If available - Corporate documents/information (e.g., brochures, press releases, promotional materials) about Department/Division and/or product line indicated above.
•	If available - Certificates or licenses in the field.
•	If available - Copies of any contracts, project roadmaps, or agreements related to your work.
•	If available - Documentation of any technologies that you have invented or contributed to inventing.
•	If available - If your work is in a research capacity, corporate documents/information (e.g., notices of patents awarded, informational brochures, press releases, articles in industry or general press) about the company’s research operations, achievements, and reputation.

